The Project Gutenberg eBook of Diary of Captain John Cooke, 1794, by
Anonymous

This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and
most other parts of the world at no cost and with almost no restrictions
whatsoever. You may copy it, give it away or re-use it under the terms
of the Project Gutenberg License included with this eBook or online at
www.gutenberg.org. If you are not located in the United States, you
will have to check the laws of the country where you are located before
using this eBook.

Title: Diary of Captain John Cooke, 1794

Author: Anonymous

Release Date: June 4, 2021 [eBook #65499]

Language: English

Character set encoding: UTF-8

Produced by: Stephen Hutcheson and the Online Distributed Proofreading
             Team at https://www.pgdp.net

*** START OF THE PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK DIARY OF CAPTAIN JOHN COOKE,
1794 ***




                   Diary of Captain John Cooke, 1794


  Prepared by the Staff of the Public Library of Fort Wayne and Allen
                                 County
                                  1953


One of a historical series, this pamphlet is published under the
direction of the governing Boards of the Public Library of Fort Wayne
and Allen County.

           BOARD OF TRUSTEES OF THE SCHOOL CITY OF FORT WAYNE

  B. F. Geyer, President
  Joseph E. Kramer, Secretary
  W. Page Yarnelle, Treasurer
  Willard Shambaugh
  Mrs. Sadie Fulk Roehrs

                 PUBLIC LIBRARY BOARD FOR ALLEN COUNTY

The members of this Board include the members of the Board of Trustees
of the School City of Fort Wayne (with the same officers), together with
the following citizens chosen from Allen County outside the corporate
city of Fort Wayne:

  James E. Graham
  Arthur Niemeier
  Mrs. Glenn Henderson
  Mrs. Charles Reynolds




                                FOREWORD


Primary source materials relating to General Wayne’s sojourn at Fort
Wayne are scarce. Extracts from the diary of one of his captains were
published in the FORT WAYNE GAZETTE eighty years ago.

The Boards and the Staff of the Public Library of Fort Wayne and Allen
County reprint these extracts in the hope that they will be interesting
and informative to students of local history. Grammar, spelling, and
punctuation have been changed to conform to current usage.

                                                Harrisburg, Pennsylvania
                                                              June, 1873

To the Editors of the GAZETTE:

The following extracts from the journal of Captain John Cooke of the
Fourth Sublegion of General Wayne’s army will be of interest to your
antiquary (if Fort Wayne is old enough to boast of antiquities), since
it contains the earliest market quotations of your city, notices of the
first sermons preached there, etc.

Captain Cooke was a son of Colonel William Cooke, Twelfth Pennsylvania
Regiment of the Continental Establishment; he entered the legal
profession, which he later abandoned for that of arms. He afterward
lived and died at Northumberland Town, Pennsylvania.

His son, Jacob Cooke, Esq., is the possessor of this journal, which is
written in a very scholarly hand and with great observance of details,
most of which I have omitted as of no interest to the general reader. In
the summer of 1792, Captain Cooke returned with General Wayne; with a
party of officers on furlough to Philadelphia, he was personally
introduced by General Wayne to General Washington. His fellow-officers
accompanied him to a fashionable boarding school in Philadelphia. There,
in his battle-stained clothes, he married his cousin, Jennie Cooke of
Lancaster, Pennsylvania.

                                                            John B. Linn


September 17, 1794

At 6:00 a.m. the army marched thirteen or fourteen miles to the Miami
villages. We halted more than two hours near the ground where a part of
Harmar’s army was defeated and directly opposite the point formed by the
St. Joseph and the St. Mary’s rivers, until the ground was
reconnoitered. It was late when the army crossed and encamped; our tents
were not all pitched before dark.


September 18, 1794

Strong breastworks were ordered thrown up; since timber was very scarce,
we were obliged to make them of earth. Four deserters came into camp
from the British garrison.


September 19, 1794

Heavy rains and violent windstorms lasted throughout the night. The men
still continued to work at the breastworks until 10:00 a.m.; then they
were obliged to quit because of heavy rain. An express arrived from
General Barbie informing us of his approach and stating that he would be
here tomorrow. We began to build a fish dam across the Miami [Maumee].


September 20, 1794

The night was stormy with frequent, hard claps of thunder. General
Barbie arrived with his command and brought provisions for the army;
several private stores were brought to camp with this command. Current
prices are as follows: mutton and beef, 25 cents; bacon, 75 cents;
sugar, coffee, and chocolate, $1 per pound; butter, 75 cents; whisky, $8
per gallon; cheese, $1 per pound.

    [Illustration: “The sermon was delivered by Rev. David Jones”]


September 21, 1794 (Sunday)

General Todd’s brigade of volunteers started for Greenville this
morning. Under his command and direction were all the quartermaster’s
and contractor’s horses, for the purpose of conducting our supplies. We
attended divine service; the sermon was delivered by Rev. David Jones,
chaplain. Mr. Jones chose for his text, Romans 8:31: “But what shall we
then say to these things? If God is for us, who can be against us?” This
was the first time the army had been called together for the purpose of
attending divine service since I joined it. [Rev. David Jones was
Wayne’s chaplain during the Revolution. He served also as chaplain
during the War of 1812. A copy of the sermon, preached from the same
text at Ticonderoga, will be found in Lossing’s PICTORIAL FIELD-BOOK OF
THE REVOLUTION, volume 2; a biographical sketch is also included.
Horatio Gates Jones, Esq., the distinguished lawyer of Philadelphia, is
a grandson of this chaplain.]


September 22, 1794

Two hundred men were ordered to cut timber and to prepare to raise a
garrison. The ground laid out for the garrison is on the south side of
the Maumee River, nearly opposite the confluence of the St. Mary’s and
St. Joseph rivers. Three men deserted from the First Sublegion. Today
the men began to draw full rations of flour, which had been stopped for
some time.


September 26, 1794

No salt is available. I received a letter from Lieutenant Lee at Fort
Defiance. He informs me that eleven men have actually deserted; and
eight more are missing—either killed, deserted, or taken; the total
rises to twenty-one, all since the thirteenth of this month. Miller, one
of our spies, brought word that he had discovered an Indian and the
trail of fourteen or fifteen more. A party of Kentucky volunteers was
immediately dispatched after them and overtook them at sundown; but
before they could complete their preparations for attack, the Indians
had discovered them and had escaped unharmed. The fish basket is nearly
completed.


September 27, 1794

Large hailstones fell during a heavy hailstorm, which lasted ten
minutes.


September 28, 1794 (Sunday)

A man deserted from Captain Thompson’s company, now commanded by Captain
Bines. This desertion seems somewhat extraordinary after McClellan’s
[Robert McClellan, or McClelland, afterwards a famous trapper of the
Rocky Mountains and immortalized in Washington Irving’s ASTORIA] report
to the commander that he had, in accordance with orders, killed one of
the deserters he was sent after and had seen two more who were killed
and scalped. The contractors are out of beef and bread, and not a grain
of salt is to be had. Major Price arrived bringing with him one hundred
fifty bullocks. He informed me that four or five waiters, who had been
sent for stores for officers, and who had preceded the escort, were
killed about five miles from Greenville. Nelly Bundy was taken at the
same time.


September 29, 1794

A heavy rain began at 4:00 p.m. The storm, accompanied with thunder and
a whirlwind, blew down the top of a very large tree within a few steps
of General Wayne’s marquee.


October 2, 1794

General Barbie, with his brigade of volunteers, was ordered to
Greenville to escort our provisions. This raised great confusion among
the volunteers, who had expected a discharge in accordance with the
promise made to them some time before.


October 6, 1794

One hundred militiamen turned out voluntarily to work on the garrison.


October 7, 1794

A boat was built by the artificers and was launched. Mr. Tharp, the
principal artificer, told me it would carry twenty-five barrels of
flour.


October 9, 1794

A blockhouse on the bank of the river was begun today. The boat which
was launched yesterday was loaded with salt and whisky for Fort Defiance
but had not gone one mile before she was run upon a rock and sunk. The
stores were all saved. McClellan, with six or seven spies, started up
the St. Joseph River, intending to be gone for five days. The volunteers
worked one half-day at the blockhouse.

    [Illustration: “... a French trader ... brought with him three
    prisoners....”]

An express arrived this evening with the intelligence that Mr. Elliot,
the contractor, was fired upon and was killed while traveling between
Fort Washington [now Cincinnati] and Fort Hamilton.


October 13, 1794

A French trader, whose brother we took in the action of August 21,
arrived in camp and brought with him three prisoners to exchange for his
brother. One of them was a young girl of about thirteen years, who was
taken near the Muskingum River about three years ago. Her
brother-in-law, who is now among the Kentucky volunteers, called upon
the commander and got her.

The trader said that there had been fourteen hundred Indians in action
on August 20; thirty-three were killed and seventy-six were wounded; the
chiefs were then all in Detroit in council; Captains Brandt, Elliott,
and G. Simcoe were with them; McKee’s son was killed in the action as
well as five other white men; all the nations except the Shawnee are for
peace.

The other two prisoners were soldiers who were taken at the time Lowry
was defeated. Four hundred Chippewa, awaiting the arrival of our army,
accompanied the fourteen hundred mentioned above; but they got impatient
and went home. The letter, written by White Eyes [sic] to General Wayne
demanding ten days, was an endeavor to gain time to get the four hundred
Chippewa back. Fifteen of the warriors—five chiefs and ten warriors—were
Ottawa. The Indians, stationed between us and the British garrison [Fort
Campbell], watch for our deserters, whom they carry into the garrison
and sell to the British for twenty-five pounds. Those who will not
enlist when they are purchased are put to hard labor with the
wheelbarrow. One of our men who deserted from Defiance was pursued,
brought back, immediately tried by court-martial, and executed.

    [Illustration: “... and executed....”]


October 17, 1794

A boat forty feet long by twelve feet wide, built upon the Kentucky
plan, was launched today. It was built for the purpose of carrying
provisions down the Miami from here to Fort Defiance. The garrison is
still far from being finished. [The Maumee River is noted on maps of
1794 and previous maps as the Upper Miami River.]


October 19, 1794 (Sunday)

At ten o’clock church call was beat. The troops fell in and marched by
platoons out of the square to the front of the garrison, where a
discourse on Romans 13:1 was delivered by Mr. Jones, chaplain.


October 21, 1794

Fatigue duty was discontinued by a general order which detailed the
companies to remain in the garrison. Lieutenant Colonel Hamtramck was to
command the companies of Captains Kingsbury, Spark, Preston, Greaton,
and Reed; Captain Porter, of artillery; Subalterns Strong, Bradley,
Brady, Campbell, Wright, and Massey. Lieutenant Wade was assigned duty
as fort major.


October 22, 1794

Colonel Hamtramck marched the troops to the garrison at 7:00 a.m. After
a discharge of fifteen guns, he named the fort by a garrison order,
“Fort Wayne.” He then marched his command into it.

Captain Kibby, with his company of spies, was directed to proceed up the
St. Mary’s River to Fort Adams to ascertain the situation of the river
with respect to navigation. He took with him the canoe and three days’
provisions.


October 25, 1794

Captain Kibby sent back an express informing the general of the
impossibility of navigating the St. Mary’s River. He begged permission
to return but was peremptorily ordered to continue to Fort Adams.


October 27, 1794

At 11:00 a.m. the army proceeded on the line of march on General
Harmar’s trace; after four and one-half miles we came to a large swamp.
At about 3:00 p.m. we heard the discharge of several cannons in our
rear; the firing was generally supposed to be at a dinner given by
Colonel Hamtramck for the officers of the garrison. We encamped at 4:00
p.m. after marching eight and one-half miles.


October 28, 1794

We marched sixteen miles very rapidly and halted by a small stream of
water.


October 29, 1794

Marching twelve miles, we reached the St. Mary’s River at 3:00 p.m. We
crossed the river and encamped at one of General Harmar’s camps.
Formerly a Frenchman by the name of La Source [sic] lived here. The
woods on the north side of the St. Mary’s River is very thick.

    [Illustration: “... and after three cheers ...”]


October 30, 1794

We marched at sunrise; after thick woods for a mile and a half, we
entered an open, extensive prairie through which we marched four miles
and struck General Wayne’s trace from Recovery, Ohio, to the St. Mary’s
River. The prairie is, I judge, five miles long and four miles wide. We
continued our march up the St. Mary’s River for Girty’s Town, ten miles
away. Captain Kibby reported very unfavorably with regard to the
navigation of the river; he said it may do for canoes or pirogues in
high water.


October 31, 1794

The army fortified a camp and remained in it all day.


November 1, 1794

Starting before sunrise, we marched through some old Indian towns until
we struck Hartshorne’s road; we then cut from Greenville to Girty’s
Town. By rapid marching to the sixteen-mile tree, we made twenty-one
miles today.


November 2, 1794 (Sunday)

After an early start and seven miles of rapid marching, we came to a
bridge built by Major Hughes. The whole legion crossed and traveled
three miles, halted, and were refreshed. In two hours we marched six
miles to Greenville; after the discharge of several guns and after three
cheers, the men were assigned to their respective huts, which we found
very much out of repair.


November 3, 1794

Lieutenant Brady arrived at Greenville with a command from Fort Wayne.
[This was General Hugh Brady, who died at Detroit some years ago.]


November 5, 1794

General Wilkinson, Colonel Strong, Doctor General Allison [sic], Captain
Fort, and others, escorted by Lieutenant Brady and his command, started
for Fort Washington. [These were all old Revolutionary War Hawks. Doctor
Allison was surgeon of General Potter’s brigade during the Revolution;
General Wilkinson and General Gates were adjutant generals at Saratoga.]


FORT WAYNE GAZETTE, June 17, 1873




                          Transcriber’s Notes


—Silently corrected a few typos.

—Retained publication information from the printed edition: this eBook
  is public-domain in the country of publication.

—In the text versions only, text in italics is delimited by
  _underscores_.



*** END OF THE PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK DIARY OF CAPTAIN JOHN COOKE,
1794 ***

Updated editions will replace the previous one--the old editions will
be renamed.

Creating the works from print editions not protected by U.S. copyright
law means that no one owns a United States copyright in these works,
so the Foundation (and you!) can copy and distribute it in the
United States without permission and without paying copyright
royalties. Special rules, set forth in the General Terms of Use part
of this license, apply to copying and distributing Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works to protect the PROJECT GUTENBERG-tm
concept and trademark. Project Gutenberg is a registered trademark,
and may not be used if you charge for an eBook, except by following
the terms of the trademark license, including paying royalties for use
of the Project Gutenberg trademark. If you do not charge anything for
copies of this eBook, complying with the trademark license is very
easy. You may use this eBook for nearly any purpose such as creation
of derivative works, reports, performances and research. Project
Gutenberg eBooks may be modified and printed and given away--you may
do practically ANYTHING in the United States with eBooks not protected
by U.S. copyright law. Redistribution is subject to the trademark
license, especially commercial redistribution.

START: FULL LICENSE

THE FULL PROJECT GUTENBERG LICENSE
PLEASE READ THIS BEFORE YOU DISTRIBUTE OR USE THIS WORK

To protect the Project Gutenberg-tm mission of promoting the free
distribution of electronic works, by using or distributing this work
(or any other work associated in any way with the phrase "Project
Gutenberg"), you agree to comply with all the terms of the Full
Project Gutenberg-tm License available with this file or online at
www.gutenberg.org/license.

Section 1. General Terms of Use and Redistributing Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works

1.A. By reading or using any part of this Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic work, you indicate that you have read, understand, agree to
and accept all the terms of this license and intellectual property
(trademark/copyright) agreement. If you do not agree to abide by all
the terms of this agreement, you must cease using and return or
destroy all copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in your
possession. If you paid a fee for obtaining a copy of or access to a
Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work and you do not agree to be bound
by the terms of this agreement, you may obtain a refund from the
person or entity to whom you paid the fee as set forth in paragraph
1.E.8.

1.B. "Project Gutenberg" is a registered trademark. It may only be
used on or associated in any way with an electronic work by people who
agree to be bound by the terms of this agreement. There are a few
things that you can do with most Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works
even without complying with the full terms of this agreement. See
paragraph 1.C below. There are a lot of things you can do with Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works if you follow the terms of this
agreement and help preserve free future access to Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works. See paragraph 1.E below.

1.C. The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation ("the
Foundation" or PGLAF), owns a compilation copyright in the collection
of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works. Nearly all the individual
works in the collection are in the public domain in the United
States. If an individual work is unprotected by copyright law in the
United States and you are located in the United States, we do not
claim a right to prevent you from copying, distributing, performing,
displaying or creating derivative works based on the work as long as
all references to Project Gutenberg are removed. Of course, we hope
that you will support the Project Gutenberg-tm mission of promoting
free access to electronic works by freely sharing Project Gutenberg-tm
works in compliance with the terms of this agreement for keeping the
Project Gutenberg-tm name associated with the work. You can easily
comply with the terms of this agreement by keeping this work in the
same format with its attached full Project Gutenberg-tm License when
you share it without charge with others.

1.D. The copyright laws of the place where you are located also govern
what you can do with this work. Copyright laws in most countries are
in a constant state of change. If you are outside the United States,
check the laws of your country in addition to the terms of this
agreement before downloading, copying, displaying, performing,
distributing or creating derivative works based on this work or any
other Project Gutenberg-tm work. The Foundation makes no
representations concerning the copyright status of any work in any
country other than the United States.

1.E. Unless you have removed all references to Project Gutenberg:

1.E.1. The following sentence, with active links to, or other
immediate access to, the full Project Gutenberg-tm License must appear
prominently whenever any copy of a Project Gutenberg-tm work (any work
on which the phrase "Project Gutenberg" appears, or with which the
phrase "Project Gutenberg" is associated) is accessed, displayed,
performed, viewed, copied or distributed:

  This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and
  most other parts of the world at no cost and with almost no
  restrictions whatsoever. You may copy it, give it away or re-use it
  under the terms of the Project Gutenberg License included with this
  eBook or online at www.gutenberg.org. If you are not located in the
  United States, you will have to check the laws of the country where
  you are located before using this eBook.

1.E.2. If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is
derived from texts not protected by U.S. copyright law (does not
contain a notice indicating that it is posted with permission of the
copyright holder), the work can be copied and distributed to anyone in
the United States without paying any fees or charges. If you are
redistributing or providing access to a work with the phrase "Project
Gutenberg" associated with or appearing on the work, you must comply
either with the requirements of paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 or
obtain permission for the use of the work and the Project Gutenberg-tm
trademark as set forth in paragraphs 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.

1.E.3. If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is posted
with the permission of the copyright holder, your use and distribution
must comply with both paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 and any
additional terms imposed by the copyright holder. Additional terms
will be linked to the Project Gutenberg-tm License for all works
posted with the permission of the copyright holder found at the
beginning of this work.

1.E.4. Do not unlink or detach or remove the full Project Gutenberg-tm
License terms from this work, or any files containing a part of this
work or any other work associated with Project Gutenberg-tm.

1.E.5. Do not copy, display, perform, distribute or redistribute this
electronic work, or any part of this electronic work, without
prominently displaying the sentence set forth in paragraph 1.E.1 with
active links or immediate access to the full terms of the Project
Gutenberg-tm License.

1.E.6. You may convert to and distribute this work in any binary,
compressed, marked up, nonproprietary or proprietary form, including
any word processing or hypertext form. However, if you provide access
to or distribute copies of a Project Gutenberg-tm work in a format
other than "Plain Vanilla ASCII" or other format used in the official
version posted on the official Project Gutenberg-tm website
(www.gutenberg.org), you must, at no additional cost, fee or expense
to the user, provide a copy, a means of exporting a copy, or a means
of obtaining a copy upon request, of the work in its original "Plain
Vanilla ASCII" or other form. Any alternate format must include the
full Project Gutenberg-tm License as specified in paragraph 1.E.1.

1.E.7. Do not charge a fee for access to, viewing, displaying,
performing, copying or distributing any Project Gutenberg-tm works
unless you comply with paragraph 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.

1.E.8. You may charge a reasonable fee for copies of or providing
access to or distributing Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works
provided that:

* You pay a royalty fee of 20% of the gross profits you derive from
  the use of Project Gutenberg-tm works calculated using the method
  you already use to calculate your applicable taxes. The fee is owed
  to the owner of the Project Gutenberg-tm trademark, but he has
  agreed to donate royalties under this paragraph to the Project
  Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation. Royalty payments must be paid
  within 60 days following each date on which you prepare (or are
  legally required to prepare) your periodic tax returns. Royalty
  payments should be clearly marked as such and sent to the Project
  Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation at the address specified in
  Section 4, "Information about donations to the Project Gutenberg
  Literary Archive Foundation."

* You provide a full refund of any money paid by a user who notifies
  you in writing (or by e-mail) within 30 days of receipt that s/he
  does not agree to the terms of the full Project Gutenberg-tm
  License. You must require such a user to return or destroy all
  copies of the works possessed in a physical medium and discontinue
  all use of and all access to other copies of Project Gutenberg-tm
  works.

* You provide, in accordance with paragraph 1.F.3, a full refund of
  any money paid for a work or a replacement copy, if a defect in the
  electronic work is discovered and reported to you within 90 days of
  receipt of the work.

* You comply with all other terms of this agreement for free
  distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm works.

1.E.9. If you wish to charge a fee or distribute a Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic work or group of works on different terms than
are set forth in this agreement, you must obtain permission in writing
from the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the manager of
the Project Gutenberg-tm trademark. Contact the Foundation as set
forth in Section 3 below.

1.F.

1.F.1. Project Gutenberg volunteers and employees expend considerable
effort to identify, do copyright research on, transcribe and proofread
works not protected by U.S. copyright law in creating the Project
Gutenberg-tm collection. Despite these efforts, Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works, and the medium on which they may be stored, may
contain "Defects," such as, but not limited to, incomplete, inaccurate
or corrupt data, transcription errors, a copyright or other
intellectual property infringement, a defective or damaged disk or
other medium, a computer virus, or computer codes that damage or
cannot be read by your equipment.

1.F.2. LIMITED WARRANTY, DISCLAIMER OF DAMAGES - Except for the "Right
of Replacement or Refund" described in paragraph 1.F.3, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the owner of the Project
Gutenberg-tm trademark, and any other party distributing a Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic work under this agreement, disclaim all
liability to you for damages, costs and expenses, including legal
fees. YOU AGREE THAT YOU HAVE NO REMEDIES FOR NEGLIGENCE, STRICT
LIABILITY, BREACH OF WARRANTY OR BREACH OF CONTRACT EXCEPT THOSE
PROVIDED IN PARAGRAPH 1.F.3. YOU AGREE THAT THE FOUNDATION, THE
TRADEMARK OWNER, AND ANY DISTRIBUTOR UNDER THIS AGREEMENT WILL NOT BE
LIABLE TO YOU FOR ACTUAL, DIRECT, INDIRECT, CONSEQUENTIAL, PUNITIVE OR
INCIDENTAL DAMAGES EVEN IF YOU GIVE NOTICE OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH
DAMAGE.

1.F.3. LIMITED RIGHT OF REPLACEMENT OR REFUND - If you discover a
defect in this electronic work within 90 days of receiving it, you can
receive a refund of the money (if any) you paid for it by sending a
written explanation to the person you received the work from. If you
received the work on a physical medium, you must return the medium
with your written explanation. The person or entity that provided you
with the defective work may elect to provide a replacement copy in
lieu of a refund. If you received the work electronically, the person
or entity providing it to you may choose to give you a second
opportunity to receive the work electronically in lieu of a refund. If
the second copy is also defective, you may demand a refund in writing
without further opportunities to fix the problem.

1.F.4. Except for the limited right of replacement or refund set forth
in paragraph 1.F.3, this work is provided to you 'AS-IS', WITH NO
OTHER WARRANTIES OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT
LIMITED TO WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY OR FITNESS FOR ANY PURPOSE.

1.F.5. Some states do not allow disclaimers of certain implied
warranties or the exclusion or limitation of certain types of
damages. If any disclaimer or limitation set forth in this agreement
violates the law of the state applicable to this agreement, the
agreement shall be interpreted to make the maximum disclaimer or
limitation permitted by the applicable state law. The invalidity or
unenforceability of any provision of this agreement shall not void the
remaining provisions.

1.F.6. INDEMNITY - You agree to indemnify and hold the Foundation, the
trademark owner, any agent or employee of the Foundation, anyone
providing copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in
accordance with this agreement, and any volunteers associated with the
production, promotion and distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works, harmless from all liability, costs and expenses,
including legal fees, that arise directly or indirectly from any of
the following which you do or cause to occur: (a) distribution of this
or any Project Gutenberg-tm work, (b) alteration, modification, or
additions or deletions to any Project Gutenberg-tm work, and (c) any
Defect you cause.

Section 2. Information about the Mission of Project Gutenberg-tm

Project Gutenberg-tm is synonymous with the free distribution of
electronic works in formats readable by the widest variety of
computers including obsolete, old, middle-aged and new computers. It
exists because of the efforts of hundreds of volunteers and donations
from people in all walks of life.

Volunteers and financial support to provide volunteers with the
assistance they need are critical to reaching Project Gutenberg-tm's
goals and ensuring that the Project Gutenberg-tm collection will
remain freely available for generations to come. In 2001, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation was created to provide a secure
and permanent future for Project Gutenberg-tm and future
generations. To learn more about the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation and how your efforts and donations can help, see
Sections 3 and 4 and the Foundation information page at
www.gutenberg.org

Section 3. Information about the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation

The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation is a non-profit
501(c)(3) educational corporation organized under the laws of the
state of Mississippi and granted tax exempt status by the Internal
Revenue Service. The Foundation's EIN or federal tax identification
number is 64-6221541. Contributions to the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation are tax deductible to the full extent permitted by
U.S. federal laws and your state's laws.

The Foundation's business office is located at 809 North 1500 West,
Salt Lake City, UT 84116, (801) 596-1887. Email contact links and up
to date contact information can be found at the Foundation's website
and official page at www.gutenberg.org/contact

Section 4. Information about Donations to the Project Gutenberg
Literary Archive Foundation

Project Gutenberg-tm depends upon and cannot survive without
widespread public support and donations to carry out its mission of
increasing the number of public domain and licensed works that can be
freely distributed in machine-readable form accessible by the widest
array of equipment including outdated equipment. Many small donations
($1 to $5,000) are particularly important to maintaining tax exempt
status with the IRS.

The Foundation is committed to complying with the laws regulating
charities and charitable donations in all 50 states of the United
States. Compliance requirements are not uniform and it takes a
considerable effort, much paperwork and many fees to meet and keep up
with these requirements. We do not solicit donations in locations
where we have not received written confirmation of compliance. To SEND
DONATIONS or determine the status of compliance for any particular
state visit www.gutenberg.org/donate

While we cannot and do not solicit contributions from states where we
have not met the solicitation requirements, we know of no prohibition
against accepting unsolicited donations from donors in such states who
approach us with offers to donate.

International donations are gratefully accepted, but we cannot make
any statements concerning tax treatment of donations received from
outside the United States. U.S. laws alone swamp our small staff.

Please check the Project Gutenberg web pages for current donation
methods and addresses. Donations are accepted in a number of other
ways including checks, online payments and credit card donations. To
donate, please visit: www.gutenberg.org/donate

Section 5. General Information About Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works

Professor Michael S. Hart was the originator of the Project
Gutenberg-tm concept of a library of electronic works that could be
freely shared with anyone. For forty years, he produced and
distributed Project Gutenberg-tm eBooks with only a loose network of
volunteer support.

Project Gutenberg-tm eBooks are often created from several printed
editions, all of which are confirmed as not protected by copyright in
the U.S. unless a copyright notice is included. Thus, we do not
necessarily keep eBooks in compliance with any particular paper
edition.

Most people start at our website which has the main PG search
facility: www.gutenberg.org

This website includes information about Project Gutenberg-tm,
including how to make donations to the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation, how to help produce our new eBooks, and how to
subscribe to our email newsletter to hear about new eBooks.
